# Documentation for the `shutter_chance` package.
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 *shutter_chance* 
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
### Version information:
  
- Package: shutter_chance
- Version: 0.1.0
- Generated: 2025-07-17T11:52:19
- Author(s): Yutaka Morioka(sasyupi@gmail.com)
- Maintainer(s): Yutaka Morioka(sasyupi@gmail.com)
- License: MIT
- File SHA256: `F*C35797CCFD9001398729E2959119FB865080A0823306E7BF100FBBD4379DB8B7` for this version
- Content SHA256: `C*50D9D8FC7067C046C3C92B9B0F9A6E4AD8BBFA2C735427058DEB41AA47B1377E` for this version
  
---
 
# The `shutter_chance` package, version: `0.1.0`;
  
---
 
SHUTTER_CHANCE: Visual Checkpoints for SAS Data Step Review
  
---
 
  
---
 
Required SAS Components: 
  - Base SAS Software
  
---
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
*SAS package generated by SAS Package Framework, version `20241207`*
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
# The `shutter_chance` package content
The `shutter_chance` package consists of the following content:
 
1. [`%shutter_chance()` macro ](#shutterchance-macros-1 )
  
 
2. [License note](#license)
  
---
 
## `%shutter_chance()` macro <a name="shutterchance-macros-1"></a> ######

MACRO NAME   : shutter_chance
 Description  : This macro generates a visual checkpoint output for selected records 
                (based on _N_) using ODS layout and table constructs. It is useful for 
                data review or debugging by presenting variable values in a clear format.

 Parameters      :
   CheckID  = Optional identifier for the output block. If not specified, &sysindex is used.
   n        = Record numbers (_N_) to trigger output generation (e.g., 1:3 or 2 4 6). Default is 1.
   varlist  = List of variable names to be displayed (space-delimited). This is required.

 OUTPUT   When _N_ matches the specified values, the macro produces an ODS layout 
                showing the CheckID, current _N_, and the values of the specified variables.
                Requires ODS output environment (e.g., HTML or RTF) to be active.

 USAGE EXAMPLE:
   data wk1;
     set sashelp.class;
     %shutter_chance(CheckID=A, n=1:3, varlist=Name Weight Height BMI);
     BMI = Weight / HEIGHT**2 * 703;
     %shutter_chance(CheckID=B, n=1:3, varlist=Name Weight Height BMI);
   run;

 NOTES        : 
   - This macro internally creates an ODSOUT instance. Ensure ODS output is enabled.
   - Variable names must be valid and exist in the dataset at the time of macro invocation.
   - Avoid instance name conflicts if other ODS macros/templates are used.

 Author          : Yutaka Morioka
License : MIT

  
---
 
  
---
 
# License <a name="license"></a> ######
 
	Copyright (c) [2025]  [Yutaka Morioka]

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy  
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal 
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights  
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell     
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is         
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                      
                                                                                
  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included       
  in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                        
                                                                                
  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR    
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,      
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE   
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER        
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
  SOFTWARE.
  
---
 
